Tired of configuring your network adapter?
Me too...
Note that if you have specific reasons to deviate from these settings, use common sense.

ARP offload - Disabled
	is the network adapter's ability to respond to an IPv4 ARP request without waking the computer. 
	To enable the feature, both the hardware and the driver must support ARP offload. Enabled (default)
	The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a communication protocol used for discovering the link layer address, such as a MAC address, associated with a given internet layer address, typically an IPv4 address.
	This is not needed.

Direct Memory Access (DMA) Coalescing - Disabled
 
	DMA (direct memory access) allows the network device to move packet data directly to the system's memory, reducing CPU utilization. However, the frequency and random intervals at which packets arrive do not allow the system to enter a lower power state. DMA coalescing allows the NIC to collect packets before it initiates a DMA event. This may increase network latency but also increases the chances that the system will consume less energy. Adapters and network devices based on the Intel® Ethernet Controller I350 (and later controllers) support DMA coalescing.

	Higher DMA coalescing values result in more energy saved but may increase your system's network latency. If you enable DMA coalescing, you should also set the interrupt moderation rate to 'Minimal'. This minimizes the latency impact imposed by DMA coalescing and results in better peak network throughput performance. You must enable DMA coalescing on all active ports in the system. You may not gain any energy savings if it is enabled only on some of the ports in your system. There are also several BIOS, platform, and application settings that will affect your potential energy savings.

	Again, with the energy saving shit.  No, no, and no.  May increase network latency is bad, mkay?

Enable PME - Disabled

	PME Aggregation Function (PAF) is a computer networking mechanism defined in Clause 61 of the IEEE 802.3 standard, which allows one or more Physical Medium Entities (PMEs) to be combined to form a single logical Ethernet link.
	
	Very cool stuff, but not needed here.
	
Energy Efficient Ethernet - Disabled

	Here we go again.  No, no, no.

	In computer networking, Energy-Efficient Ethernet (EEE) is a set of enhancements to twisted-pair, twinaxial, backplane, and optical fiber Ethernet physical-layer variants that reduce power consumption during periods of low data activity.[1] The intention is to reduce power consumption by 50% or more, while retaining full compatibility with existing equipment.[2]

Flow Control - rx enabled
	you don't want tx flow control here for streaming
	this allows the reciever to tell the sender that it can't keep up
	well, naturally it's going to do this all the time
	so you see large 1-2 mbps swings in the stream
	this flattens the stream at the expense of some packet loss during problems
	but, you're going to have issues anyway, so better to have the problems be problems and the rest of the time it's flat
	up down swings reduced from 1-2 mbps to >1 mbps
	on the rx side, this is fine, some delay in recieve is generally buffered so much you'll not notice
	
Gigabit master / slave mode - Auto Detect
	
	This can force link speed down to 100Mbps (or disconnect) if it goes wrong.  
	As the options are force master, force slave, or auto detect, auto detect it is.
	
Interrupt Moderation - Disabled
Interrupt Moderation Rate - Off

	Sets the Interrupt Throttle Rate (ITR), the rate at which the controller moderates interrupts.
	The default setting is optimized for common configurations. 
	Changing this setting can improve network performance on certain network and system configurations.

	Options
	Adaptive (ITR = -1, no interrupts/sec, it is dynamically changed by the driver)
	Off (ITR = 0, no limit)
	Minimal (ITR = 200)
	Low (ITR = 400)
	Medium (ITR = 950)
	High (ITR = 2000)
	Extreme (ITR = 3600)

	When an event occurs, the adapter generates an interrupt, which allows the driver to handle the packet. 
	At greater link speeds, more interrupts are created, and CPU rates also increase. 
	This results in poor system performance. 
	When you use a higher ITR setting, the interrupt rate is lower, and the result is better system performance.

	Note	A higher ITR also means the driver has more latency in handling packets. 
	If the adapter is handling many small packets, lower the ITR so the driver is more responsive to incoming and outgoing packets.

	The average packet size of a video stream versus that of an audio stream is very different. 
	Video packets sizes are usually large (800-1500 bytes) while audio packet sizes are generally small (480 bytes or less).
	Having a dedicated cpu for streaming should mean that interrupt moderation is low, minimal, or off.

	Intel says:
	Reduce Interrupt Moderation Rate to Low, Minimal, or Off:
	Also known as Interrupt Throttle Rate (ITR).
	The default is Adaptive for most roles.
	The low latency profile sets the rate to off.
	The storage profiles set the rate to medium.
	Note	Decreasing Interrupt Moderation Rate increases CPU utilization.

Jumbo Packet - Disabled

	Enable Jumbo Frames to the largest size supported across the network (4KB, 9KB, or 16KB).
	The default is Disabled.
	Note	Enable Jumbo Frames only if devices across the network support them and are configured to use the same frame size.
	Jumbo frame support is required for frame sizes over the standard 1500 byte mtu. 
	While useful in local scenarios where topology is known, you can assume that over the internet this is not the case.
	
Large Send Offload V2 IPV4 - Disabled
Large Send Offload V2 IPV6 - Disabled

	Enables the adapter to offload the task of segmenting TCP messages into valid Ethernet frames.
	Because the adapter hardware can complete data segmentation faster than operating system software, this feature can improve transmission performance. 
	The adapter also uses fewer CPU resources.
	You can configure Large Send Offload separately for IPv4 and IPv6.

	Note	For adapters to benefit from this feature, link partners must support flow control frames.  
	The large send offload version 2 (LSOV2) interface is an enhanced version of LSOV1. 
	LSOV2 supports IPv6, IPv4, and segmentation for large TCP packets that are larger than 64K.

	Dell says:
	While enabling network adapter offload features is typically beneficial, there are configurations where these advanced features are a detriment to overall performance. 

	 The incompatible technologies are:

         Windows Firewall
         Internet Protocol security (IPsec)
         Internet Protocol Network Address Translation (IPNAT)
         Third-party firewalls
         NDIS 5.1 intermediate drivers
	
	Because of this, disabling the advanced offloading features can greatly improve connectivity.
	Note that other firewall and hardware manufacturers generally say the same thing dell says about this.
	This feature is primarily useful for higher bandwidth links, 10Gb+, at link speeds lower than this it should be disabled.
	Even at higher link speeds, it can get in the way.

Locally Administered Address - Not Present

	To change the MAC address, first click the Advanced tab, and under Settings click Locally Administered Address. 
	If you have a reason to change your MAC, here it is.
	
Log Link State Event - Disabled

	Enables the logging of the following link state changes to the system event log.

	LINK_UP_CHANGE
	When this message is displayed, the link is up.
	LINK_DOWN_CHANGE
	When this message is displayed, the link is down. To investigate the issue, click the Link Speed tab and run diagnostics.
	LINK_DUPLEX_MISMATCH
	This message signifies a mismatch in duplex between the adapter and the link partner. 
	To investigate this issue, click the Link Speed tab and change the speed and duplex settings appropriately.
	
	To the extent this is useful to have in logs, fine.  For normal operation it isn't needed.
	
Maximum Number of RSS Queues - 4

	Enables Receive Side Scaling (RSS). RSS balances receive traffic across multiple CPUs or CPU cores. 
	This setting has no effect if your system has only one processing unit.

	Notes	
	You must enable RSS for Intel® I/O Acceleration Technology to function under Microsoft* Windows Server* 2003.
	Some adapters configured to use Virtual Machine Queues (VMQ) don't support RSS. 
	For these adapters, VMQ takes precedence over RSS. RSS is disabled.
	Changing this setting can cause a momentary loss of connectivity.

	Teaming Notes:
	If RSS is not enabled for all adapters in a team, RSS is disabled for the team.
	If an adapter that doesn't support RSS is added to a team, RSS is disabled for the team.
	If a third-party adapter is added to a team, its RSS settings must match the Intel® adapters in the team.
	Not all adapters support all RSS queue settings.

	Configures the number of RSS queues:

	One queue is used when low CPU utilization is required.
	Two queues are used when good throughput and low CPU utilization are required.

	** Four or more queues are used for applications that demand high transaction rates such as web server based applications. With this setting, the CPU utilization may be higher.
	 
	Notes	
	Not all adapters support all RSS queue settings.
	RSS is not supported on some adapters configured to use Virtual Machine Queues (VMQ). For these adapters VMQ takes precedence over RSS. RSS is disabled.
	Using eight or more queues on Microsoft Windows Server* 2008 requires the system to reboot.
	Changing this setting may cause a momentary loss of connectivity.

NS Offload - Disabled

	Offloading tasks from the CPU to the network adapter can help lower CPU usage on the PC at the expense of adapter throughput performance.
	NS Offload: Enables the adapter to respond to Neighbor Discovery Neighbor Solicitation requests, which prevents the computer from having to wake for them when asleep.
	
	The Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP), or simply Neighbor Discovery (ND), is a protocol of the Internet protocol suite used with Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6).[1] It operates at the link layer of the Internet model,[2][3] and is responsible for gathering various information required for network communication, including the configuration of local connections and the domain name servers and gateways.[4]

	The protocol defines five ICMPv6 packet types to perform functions for IPv6 similar to the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) and Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) Router Discovery and Router Redirect protocols for IPv4. It provides many improvements over its IPv4 counterparts (RFC 4861, section 3.1). For example, it includes Neighbor Unreachability Detection (NUD), thus improving robustness of packet delivery in the presence of failing routers or links, or mobile nodes.

	The Inverse Neighbor Discovery (IND) protocol extension (RFC 3122) allows nodes to determine and advertise an IPv6 address corresponding to a given link-layer address, similar to Reverse ARP for IPv4.

	The Secure Neighbor Discovery Protocol (SEND), a security extension of NDP, uses Cryptographically Generated Addresses (CGA) and the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) to provide an alternative mechanism for securing NDP with a cryptographic method that is independent of IPsec. Neighbor Discovery Proxy (ND Proxy) (RFC 4389) provides a service similar to IPv4 Proxy ARP and allows bridging multiple network segments within a single subnet prefix when bridging cannot be done at the link layer.
	
	Yeah, not needed here.
	Offloading this task is similar to other offloading issues.
	
Packet Priority & VLAN - Packet Priority and VLAN Disabled
	
	Enables sending and receiving of IEEE 802.3ac tagged frames, which include
	802.1p QoS (Quality of Service) tags for priority-tagged packets
	802.1Q tags for VLANs
	Intel® PROSet automatically enables 802.1p tagging when you set up a VLAN. 
	You cannot disable QoS Packet Tagging on a VLAN because tagging is required for VLANs.
	When this feature is enabled, tagged packets use the queue settings defined by the operating system Priority Level Definition.
	When this setting is disabled, the adapter cannot tag outgoing packets with 802.1p/802.1Q tags.
	IEEE 802.1p is an extension of the IEEE 802.1Q (VLAN Tag Technology) standard. 
	They work together to enable Layer 2 network switches to provide traffic priority and dynamic multicast filtering services. 
	The IEEE 802.1Q standard defines the labels to be added to Ethernet MAC data frames.
	A virtual local area network (VLAN) is any broadcast domain that is partitioned and isolated in a computer network at the data link layer (OSI layer 2).

	If you need this you know why, if you don't, disable it.
	
PTP Hardware Timestamp - Enabled

	Precision Time Protocol (PTP) is a network-based time synchronization standard that is designed for distributing precise time and frequency from a clock source over packet-based networks. PTP enables switches and routers to deliver synchronization with a higher level of accuracy than NTP. It is suitable for today’s cloud networks and data center infrastructures.

	PTP is capable of synchronizing multiple clocks to better than 100 nanoseconds on a network specifically designed for IEEE-1588. 

	These timestamps are used to determine the network latency which is required to synchronize the Slave to the Master. There is a sync message transmitted typically every two seconds from the Master, and a delay request message from the Slave less frequently, about one request per minute
	
	Support for this started in Microsoft Windows 10 October 2018 Update (version 1809).
	
	The device’s clock hardware consists of an oscillator that is specified as ticks per second, such as 100 million ticks per second (100 MHz). Software in the device reads a counter that tells it how many ticks have occurred since the oscillator was powered on. If the device has a network connection, it can receive time from another device over the network. If the devices need to synchronize time accurately, simple messages that contain the current time are insufficient because time changes as messages travel over networks. Slight operational discrepancies between oscillators can also cause times to eventually drift apart, and that drift can also be affected by environmental factors like temperature. The PTP protocol operates continuously to resolve these challenges.
	
	While devices are connected to the Internet using an Ethernet cable, telecom service providers also implement large Ethernet networks outside of the home or office, and similar Ethernet networks exist within 4G/5G base stations to transfer mobile phone data to and from the Internet—all of which requires time synchronization based on PTP.
	
	This seems to be device and application specific in its use. 
	Remains disabled due to test results and not fully understanding the use case.
	Testing shows buffering on some devices with this enabled.
	I do not understand the cause, but have it disabled as a result.
	
Rx Buffer - 2048
	
	Use the largest value possible as long as a few extra kb of ram isn't a problem.
	
Receive Side Scaling - Enabled

	Receive side scaling (RSS) enables processing for a TCP connection across multiple processors or processor cores. 
	If your adapter does not support RSS, or if your operating system does not support it, the RSS setting does not display.

Reduce Speed on Power Down

	Reduce Speed?  No thanks.
	
Software Timestamp - Disabled.

	Related to PTP, see above.  
	
Speed and Duplex - Auto Negotiation

	You can set this manually, but there isn't a point.

Transmit Buffers - 2048
	
	Again, max size if ram isn't a problem.
	
TCP Checksum Offload IPV4 - Rx & Tx Enabled
TCP Checksum Offload IPV6 - Rx & Tx Enabled

	Sez Intel
	TCP checksum offload (IPv4) and TCP Checksum Offload (IPv6) enable the adapter to compute (TX) or verify (RX) the TCP checksum of packets. 
	You can configure TCP checksum offload under TCP/IP Offloading Options properties when Intel® PROSet for Windows Device Manager is installed. 
	This feature can improve performance and reduce CPU utilization. 
	With Offloading enabled, the adapter computes or verifies the checksum for the operating system.
	Default	RX and TX Enabled
	
	Sez Microsoft
	Address checksum offloads are a NIC feature that offloads the calculation of address checksums (IP, TCP, UDP) to the NIC hardware for both send and receive.

	On the receive path, the checksum offload calculates the checksums in the IP, TCP, and UDP headers (as appropriate) and indicates to the OS whether the checksums passed, failed, or not checked. If the NIC asserts that the checksums are valid, the OS accepts the packet unchallenged. If the NIC asserts the checksums are invalid or not checked, the IP/TCP/UDP stack internally calculates the checksums again. If the computed checksum fails, the packet gets discarded.

	On the send path, the checksum offload calculates and inserts the checksums into the IP, TCP, or UDP header as appropriate.

	Disabling checksum offloads on the send path does not disable checksum calculation and insertion for packets sent to the miniport driver using the Large Send Offload (LSO) feature.  To disable all checksum offload calculations, the user must also disable LSO.

	Address Checksum Offloads should ALWAYS be enabled no matter what workload or circumstance. 
	This most basic of all offload technologies always improve your network performance. 
	Checksum offloading is also required for other stateless offloads to work including receive side scaling (RSS), receive segment coalescing (RSC), and large send offload (LSO).

	The reason this stays enabled is for RSS, see the RSS section above.
	
Wait for Link - Auto Detect

	Decides if the driver waits for Auto Negotiation to be successful before reporting the link state. On: Driver does wait for Auto Negotiation. If the speed is not set to Auto Negotiation, the driver waits for a short time for link to complete and then reports the link state.

	There's no need to change this that I'm aware of.
	
Wake on ... Disabled
	
	Security threats: The wake on LAN Magic packets are transmitted to the target device by the Wake on LAN tool, through the data link layer. Without required security measures in place, the Wake-on-LAN trigger packets can be manipulated by any attacker or rogue device in the same network.
	
	Wake-on-LAN (WOL) allows a computer to be powered on or awakened from standby, hibernate or shutdown from another device on a network.

	If you don't have a specific reason to use these, disable them.
